Monochrome TV deals with the first three factors. Color TV includes all four factors.
A video transmission system must convert these three (or four) factors into electrical
equivalents. The first three factors are integrated to an equivalent electric current or
voltage whose amplitude is varied with time. Essentially, at any one moment it must
integrate luminance from a scene in the three dimensions (i.e., width, height, and depth)
as a function of time. And time itself is still another variable, for the scene is changing
in time.
The process of integration of visual intelligence is carried out by scanning. The horizontal
detail of a scene is transmitted continuously and the vertical detail discontinuously.
The vertical dimension is assigned discrete values that become the fundamental
limiting factor in a video transmission system.
The scanning process consists of taking a horizontal strip across the image on which
discrete square elements called pels or pixels (picture elements) are scanned from left to
right. When the right-hand end is reached, another, lower, horizontal strip is explored,
and so on, until the whole image has been scanned. Luminance values are translated on
each scanning interval into voltage and current variations and are transmitted over the
system. The concept of scanning by this means is illustrated in Figure 14.1.
The National Television Systems Committee (U.S.) (NTSC) practice divides an image
into 525 horizontal scanning lines.1 It is the number of scanning lines that determines
the vertical detail or resolution of a picture.
When discussing picture resolution, the aspect ratio is the width-to-height ratio of
the video image (see Section 14.2.1).2 The aspect ratio used almost universally is 4 : 3.3
In other words, a TV image 12 in. wide would necessarily be 9 in. high. Thus an image
divided into 525 (491) vertical elements would then have 700 (652) horizontal elements
to maintain an aspect ratio of 4 : 3. The numbers in parentheses represent the practical
maximum active lines and elements. Therefore, the total number of elements approaches
something on the order of 250,000. We reach this number because, in practice, the vertical
detail reproduced is 64–87% of the active scanning lines. A good halftone engraving
may have as many as 14,400 elements per square inch, compared to approximately 3000
elements per square inch for a 9-in. by 12-in. TV image.
Motion is another variable factor that must be transmitted. The sensation of continuous
motion, standard TV video practice, is transmitted to the viewer by a successive
display of still pictures at a regular rate similar to the method used in motion pictures.
The regulate rate of display is called the frame rate. A frame rate of 25 frames per
second will give the viewer a sense of motion, but on the other hand he/ she will be
disturbed by luminance flicker (bloom and decay), or the sensation that still pictures are
“flicking” on screen one after the other. To avoid any sort of luminance flicker sensation,
the image is divided into two closely interwoven (interleaving) parts, and each part is
presented in succession at a rate of 60 frames per second, even though complete pic-S